README.md, before:

# WARPCORE

**Hashing at the speed of light on modern CUDA-accelerators**

## Introduction
`warpcore` is a framework for creating purpose-built high-throughput hashing data structures on CUDA-accelerators.

This library provides the following data structures:
- [`warpcore::SingleValueHashTable`](include/warpcore/single_value_hash_table.cuh): Stores a set of key/value pairs.
- [`warpcore::HashSet`](include/warpcore/hash_set.cuh): Stores a *set* of keys.
- [`warpcore::CountingHashTable`](include/warpcore/counting_hash_table.cuh): Keeps track of the number of occurrences of each inserted key.
- [`warpcore::BloomFilter`](include/warpcore/bloom_filter.cuh): Pattern-blocked bloom filter for approximate membership queries.
- [`warpcore::MultiValueHashTable`](include/warpcore/multi_value_hash_table.cuh): Stores a multi-set of key/value pairs.
- [`warpcore::BucketListHashTable`](include/warpcore/bucket_list_hash_table.cuh): Alternative variant of `warpcore::MultiValueHashTable`. Better suited for highly skewed input distributions.

Implementations support key types `std::uint32_t` and `std::uint64_t` together with any trivially copyable value type. In order to be adaptable to a wide range of possible usecases, we provide a multitude of combinable modules such as [hash functions](include/warpcore/hashers.cuh), [probing schemes](include/warpcore/probing_schemes.cuh), and [data layouts](include/warpcore/storage.cuh) (visit the [documentation](https://sleeepyjack.github.io/warpcore/) for further information).

`warpcore` has won the best paper award at the [ACM HPDC 2021 conference](http://www.hpdc.org/2021/) ([link to preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.07914)) and is based on our previous work on massively parallel GPU hash tables `warpdrive` which has been published in the prestigious [IEEE IPDPS conference](https://www.ipdps.org/) ([link to paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8425198)).

## Development Status

This library is still under heavy development. Users should expect breaking changes and refactoring to be common.
Developement mainly takes place on our in-house `gitlab` instance. However, we plan to migrate to `github` in the near future.

## Requirements
- [CUDA-capable device](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) with architecture sm_60 or higher (Pascal+)
- [NVIDIA CUDA toolkit/compiler](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) version >= v11.2
- C++14 or higher

## Dependencies
- [hpc_helpers](https://gitlab.rlp.net/pararch/hpc_helpers) - utils, timers, etc.
- [kiss_rng](https://github.com/sleeepyjack/kiss_rng) - a fast and lightweight GPU RNG.
- [CUB](https://nvlabs.github.io/cub/) - high-throughput primitives for GPUs (already included in newer versions of the CUDA toolkit i.e. >= 10.2)


**Note:** Dependencies are automatically managed via [CMake](https://cmake.org/).

## Getting `warpcore`

`warpcore` is header only and can be incorporated manually into your project by downloading the headers and placing them into your source tree.

### Adding `warpcore` to a CMake Project

`warpcore` is designed to make it easy to include within another CMake project.
 The `CMakeLists.txt` exports a `warpcore` target that can be linked into a target to setup include directories, dependencies, and compile flags necessary to use `warpcore` in your project.


We recommend using [CMake Package Manager (CPM)](https://github.com/TheLartians/CPM.cmake) to fetch `warpcore` into your project.
With CPM, getting `warpcore` is easy:

```
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.18 FATAL_ERROR)

include(path/to/CPM.cmake)

CPMAddPackage(
  NAME warpcore
  GITHUB_REPOSITORY sleeepyjack/warpcore
)

target_link_libraries(my_library warpcore)
```

This will take care of downloading `warpcore` from GitHub and making the headers available in a location that can be found by CMake. Linking against the `warpcore` target will provide everything needed for `warpcore` to be used by the `my_library` target.

<a name="link-footnote">1</a>: `warpcore` is header-only and therefore there is no binary component to "link" against. The linking terminology comes from CMake's `target_link_libraries` which is still used even for header-only library targets.

## [Documentation](docs/index.html)

## Where to go from here?
Take a look at the [examples](examples/README.md), test your own system performance using the [benchmark suite](benchmarks/README.md) and be sure everything works as expected by running the [test suite](tests/README.md).

## How to cite `warpcore`?
BibTeX:
```console
@article{junger2020warpcore,
  title={WarpCore: A Library for fast Hash Tables on GPUs},
  author={J{\"u}nger, Daniel and Kobus, Robin and M{\"u}ller, Andr{\'e} and Hundt, Christian and Xu, Kai and Liu, Weiguo and Schmidt, Bertil},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.07914},
  year={2020}
}

@inproceedings{junger2018warpdrive,
  title={WarpDrive: Massively parallel hashing on multi-GPU nodes},
  author={J{\"u}nger, Daniel and Hundt, Christian and Schmidt, Bertil},
  booktitle={2018 IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS)},
  pages={441--450},
  year={2018},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```
***
warpcore Copyright (C) 2018-2021 [Daniel Jünger](https://github.com/sleeepyjack)

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions. See the file [LICENSE](LICENSE.txt) for details.

[repository]: https://github.com/sleeepyjack/warpcore

Commit message:

added build instructions to README.md

README.md, after:

# WARPCORE

**Hashing at the speed of light on modern CUDA-accelerators**

## Introduction
`warpcore` is a framework for creating purpose-built high-throughput hashing data structures on CUDA-accelerators.

This library provides the following data structures:
- [`warpcore::SingleValueHashTable`](include/warpcore/single_value_hash_table.cuh): Stores a set of key/value pairs.
- [`warpcore::HashSet`](include/warpcore/hash_set.cuh): Stores a *set* of keys.
- [`warpcore::CountingHashTable`](include/warpcore/counting_hash_table.cuh): Keeps track of the number of occurrences of each inserted key.
- [`warpcore::BloomFilter`](include/warpcore/bloom_filter.cuh): Pattern-blocked bloom filter for approximate membership queries.
- [`warpcore::MultiValueHashTable`](include/warpcore/multi_value_hash_table.cuh): Stores a multi-set of key/value pairs.
- [`warpcore::BucketListHashTable`](include/warpcore/bucket_list_hash_table.cuh): Alternative variant of `warpcore::MultiValueHashTable`. Better suited for highly skewed input distributions.

Implementations support key types `std::uint32_t` and `std::uint64_t` together with any trivially copyable value type. In order to be adaptable to a wide range of possible usecases, we provide a multitude of combinable modules such as [hash functions](include/warpcore/hashers.cuh), [probing schemes](include/warpcore/probing_schemes.cuh), and [data layouts](include/warpcore/storage.cuh) (visit the [documentation](https://sleeepyjack.github.io/warpcore/) for further information).

`warpcore` has won the best paper award at the [ACM HPDC 2021 conference](http://www.hpdc.org/2021/) ([link to preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.07914)) and is based on our previous work on massively parallel GPU hash tables `warpdrive` which has been published in the prestigious [IEEE IPDPS conference](https://www.ipdps.org/) ([link to paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8425198)).

## Development Status

This library is still under heavy development. Users should expect breaking changes and refactoring to be common.
Developement mainly takes place on our in-house `gitlab` instance. However, we plan to migrate to `github` in the near future.

## Requirements
- [CUDA-capable device](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) with architecture sm_60 or higher (Pascal+)
- [NVIDIA CUDA toolkit/compiler](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) version >= v11.2
- C++14 or higher

## Dependencies
- [hpc_helpers](https://gitlab.rlp.net/pararch/hpc_helpers) - utils, timers, etc.
- [kiss_rng](https://github.com/sleeepyjack/kiss_rng) - a fast and lightweight GPU RNG.
- [CUB](https://nvlabs.github.io/cub/) - high-throughput primitives for GPUs (already included in newer versions of the CUDA toolkit i.e. >= 10.2)


**Note:** Dependencies are automatically managed via [CMake](https://cmake.org/).

## Getting `warpcore`

`warpcore` is header only and can be incorporated manually into your project by downloading the headers and placing them into your source tree.

### Adding `warpcore` to a CMake Project

`warpcore` is designed to make it easy to include within another CMake project.
 The `CMakeLists.txt` exports a `warpcore` target that can be linked<sup>[1](#link-footnote)</sup> into a target to setup include directories, dependencies, and compile flags necessary to use `warpcore` in your project.


We recommend using [CMake Package Manager (CPM)](https://github.com/TheLartians/CPM.cmake) to fetch `warpcore` into your project.
With CPM, getting `warpcore` is easy:

```
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.18 FATAL_ERROR)

include(path/to/CPM.cmake)

CPMAddPackage(
  NAME warpcore
  GITHUB_REPOSITORY sleeepyjack/warpcore
)

target_link_libraries(my_library warpcore)
```

This will take care of downloading `warpcore` from GitHub and making the headers available in a location that can be found by CMake. Linking against the `warpcore` target will provide everything needed for `warpcore` to be used by the `my_library` target.

<a name="link-footnote">1</a>: `warpcore` is header-only and therefore there is no binary component to "link" against. The linking terminology comes from CMake's `target_link_libraries` which is still used even for header-only library targets.

## Building `warpcore`

Since `warpcore` is header-only, there is nothing to build to use it.

To build the tests, benchmarks, and examples:

```
cd $WARPCORE_ROOT
mkdir -p build
cd build
cmake .. -DWARPCORE_BUILD_TESTS=ON -DDWARPCORE_BUILD_BENCHMARKS=ON -DDWARPCORE_BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON
make
```
Binaries will be built into:
- `build/tests/`
- `build/benchmarks/`
- `build/examples/`


## [Documentation](docs/index.html)

## Where to go from here?
Take a look at the [examples](examples/README.md), test your own system performance using the [benchmark suite](benchmarks/README.md) and be sure everything works as expected by running the [test suite](tests/README.md).

## How to cite `warpcore`?
BibTeX:
```console
@article{junger2020warpcore,
  title={WarpCore: A Library for fast Hash Tables on GPUs},
  author={J{\"u}nger, Daniel and Kobus, Robin and M{\"u}ller, Andr{\'e} and Hundt, Christian and Xu, Kai and Liu, Weiguo and Schmidt, Bertil},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.07914},
  year={2020}
}

@inproceedings{junger2018warpdrive,
  title={WarpDrive: Massively parallel hashing on multi-GPU nodes},
  author={J{\"u}nger, Daniel and Hundt, Christian and Schmidt, Bertil},
  booktitle={2018 IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS)},
  pages={441--450},
  year={2018},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```
***
warpcore Copyright (C) 2018-2021 [Daniel Jünger](https://github.com/sleeepyjack)

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions. See the file [LICENSE](LICENSE.txt) for details.

[repository]: https://github.com/sleeepyjack/warpcore
